 affection does not demand yielding to extortion in any form. On the contrary true affection will resist it. The writer suggests that usual parliamentary programme with obstruction. It futility, when it is not backed by readiness for no co operation and civil disobedience, has been fully demonstrated. So far as the British are concerned I have already said that I will do nothing to embarrass them. I straining every nerve to avoid a conflict. But they may make it inevitable. Even so, I am praying for a mode of application which will be effective and still not embarrassing in the sense of violent outbreaks throughout the country. Here I must say that, whilst it is true that active co operation on the part of Congressmen is not yet much in evidence, of passive co operation on their part there is no lack. Violent, sporadic eruptions on the part of the people would have paralysed my effort to gather together forces of non violence in an effective manner. As it is, the restraint which they have exercised fills me with hope for the future. Hindu Muslim unity is a morsel by itself. But my friend is on the wrong track when he suggests that unity should be hastened for fear of Muslims raising their demands. Demands against whom? India is as much theirs as anybody elses. The way to unity lies through just demands once for all, not through ever increasing demands, whether just or unjust. The demand for partition puts an end to all effort for unity for the time being. I hold that communal understanding is not a pre requisite to the British doing justice on their part. When they feel that they want to recognize Indias right of self determination, all the difficulties that they put forth as obstacles in their path will melt away like ice before the suns rays. The right of self determination means the right of determination by every group and ultimately every individual. The demand for a Constituent Assembly presumes that the determinations of the groups and individuals will coincide. Should it happen otherwise and partition become the fashion, either we shall have partition or partitions rather than foreign rule, or we shall conti nue to wrangle among ourselves and submit to foreign rule, or else have a proper civil war. Anyway the present suspense cannot conti nue. It has to end one way or the other. I am an optimist. I have every hope that when we come to grips Hindus, Muslims and all others will throw in favour of India which all will claim as their own. SEVAGRAM, May 13, 1940